Kubernetes 1.20 Release Blog (#25469)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2020-12-08-kubernetes-release-1.20.md

---
layout: blog
title: 'Kubernetes 1.20: The Raddest Release'
date: 2020-12-08
slug: kubernetes-1-20-release-announcement
---

**Authors:** [Kubernetes 1.20 Release Team](https://github.com/kubernetes/sig-release/blob/master/releases/release-1.20/release_team.md)

We’re pleased to announce the release of Kubernetes 1.20, our third and final release of 2020! This release consists of 42 enhancements: 11 enhancements have graduated to stable, 15 enhancements are moving to beta, and 16 enhancements are entering alpha.

> The 1.20 release cycle returned to its normal cadence of 11 weeks following the previous extended release cycle. This is one of the most feature dense releases in a while: the Kubernetes' innovation cycle is still trending upward. This release has more alpha than stable enhancements, showing that there is still much to explore in the cloud native ecosystem.

Reviewer: `the Kubernetes' innovation cycle ` &mdash; is this a mistake?  Remove `the` or `'`?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The 1.20 release cycle returned to its normal cadence of 11 weeks following the previous extended release cycle. This is one of the most feature dense releases in a while: the Kubernetes innovation cycle is still trending upward. This release has more alpha than stable enhancements, showing that there is still much to explore in the cloud native ecosystem.
```

## Major Themes

### Volume Snapshot Operations Goes Stable

This feature provides a standard way to trigger volume snapshot operations and allows users to incorporate snapshot operations in a portable manner on any Kubernetes environment and supported storage providers.

Additionally, these Kubernetes snapshot primitives act as basic building blocks that unlock the ability to develop advanced, enterprise-grade, storage administration features for Kubernetes, including application or cluster level backup solutions.

> Note that snapshot support require Kubernetes distributors to bundle the Snapshot controller, Snapshot CRDs, and validation webhook. A CSI driver supporting the snapshot functionality must also be deployed on the cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that snapshot support requires Kubernetes distributors to bundle the Snapshot controller, Snapshot CRDs, and validation webhook. A CSI driver supporting the snapshot functionality must also be deployed on the cluster.
```

* Troubleshoot workloads that crash on startup by creating a copy of the pod that uses a different container image or command.
* Troubleshoot distroless containers by adding a new container with debugging tools, either in a new copy of the pod or using an ephemeral container. (Ephemeral containers are an alpha feature that are not enabled by default.)
* Troubleshoot on a node by creating a container running in the host namespaces and with access to the host’s filesystem.
Note that as a new built-in command, `kubectl debug` takes priority over any kubectl plugin named “debug”. You must rename the affected plugin.

Invocations using `kubectl alpha debug` are now deprecated and will be removed in a subsequent release. Update your scripts to use `kubectl debug`. For more information about `kubectl debug`, see [Debugging Running Pods](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/debug-application-cluster/debug-running-pod/).

### Beta: API Priority and Fairness

Introduced in 1.18, Kubernetes 1.20 now enables API Priority and Fairness (APF) by default. This allows `kube-apiserver` to categorize incoming requests by priority levels.

### Alpha with updates: IPV4/IPV6

> IPv4/IPv6 dual stack has been reimplemented to support dual stack services based on user and community feedback. This allows both IPv4 and IPv6 service cluster IP addresses to be assigned to a single service, and also enables a service to be transitioned from single to dual IP stack and vice versa.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The IPv4/IPv6 dual stack has been reimplemented to support dual stack services based on user and community feedback. This allows both IPv4 and IPv6 service cluster IP addresses to be assigned to a single service, and also enables a service to be transitioned from single to dual IP stack and vice versa.
```

---
layout: blog
title: 'Kubernetes 1.20: The Raddest Release'
date: 2020-12-08
slug: kubernetes-1-20-release-announcement
---

**Authors:** [Kubernetes 1.20 Release Team](https://github.com/kubernetes/sig-release/blob/master/releases/release-1.20/release_team.md)

> We’re pleased to announce the release of Kubernetes 1.20, our third and final release of 2020! This release consists of 44 enhancements: 11 enhancements have graduated to stable, 15 enhancements are moving to beta, and 16 enhancements are entering alpha.

Reviewer 2: 11 + 15 + 16 != 44?
I believe 2 enhancements were tracked as deprecation. 
Not sure if it matters, but I feel like someone could think this was miswritten.

Author: Yea I can see that if someone doesn't know about deprecations. @jeremyrickard thoughts?

Reviewer 3: Yeah, I believe this is correct. 2 deprecations in that number.

Reviewer 3: It's probably worth saying N enhancements, breakdown, and then talk about the two that are deprecations?

I think we didn't actually track the dockershim deprecation, so it's probably actually 45, 3 of which are deprecation?

Author: I double checked the last few releases. Deprecations were not counted. I'll update the enhancement number.

> The 1.20 release cycle returned to its normal cadence of 11 weeks following the previous extended release cycle. This is one of the most feature dense releases in a while: the Kubernetes' innovation cycle is still trending upward. This release has more Alpha vs Stable enhancements, showing that there is still a lot to be explored in the cloud native ecosystem.

Reviewer 4: Grammar nits, passive voice
```suggestion
The 1.20 release cycle returned to its normal cadence of 11 weeks following the previous extended release cycle. This is one of the most feature dense releases in a while: the Kubernetes' innovation cycle is still trending upward. This release has more alpha than stable enhancements, showing that there is still much to explore in the cloud native ecosystem.
```

> The 1.20 release cycle returned to its normal cadence of 11 weeks following the previous extended release cycle. This is one of the most feature dense releases in quite some time. What you can takeaway from this is that Kubernetes' innovation cycle is still trending upward. This release has more Alpha vs Stable enhancements, showing that there is still a lot to be explored in the cloud-native ecosystem.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The 1.20 release cycle returned to its normal cadence of 11 weeks following the previous extended release cycle. This is one of the most feature dense releases in a while: the Kubernetes' innovation cycle is still trending upward. This release has more Alpha vs Stable enhancements, showing that there is still a lot to be explored in the cloud native ecosystem.
```

## Major Themes

> ### Volume Snapshot Operations Goes Stable

Reviewer 6: We usually write headings in sentence case, but for blog articles it's less important to get this right I think.

Author: I referenced previous blogs to try and find a pattern. We should probably come up with a standard.

This feature provides a standard way to trigger volume snapshot operations and allows users to incorporate snapshot operations in a portable manner on any Kubernetes environment and supported storage providers.

Additionally, these Kubernetes snapshot primitives act as basic building blocks that unlock the ability to develop advanced, enterprise-grade, storage administration features for Kubernetes, including application or cluster level backup solutions.

> Note that snapshot support will require Kubernetes distributors to bundle the Snapshot controller, Snapshot CRDs, and validation webhook. In addition, a CSI driver supporting the snapshot functionality must also be deployed on the cluster.

Reviewer 4: Present tense
```suggestion
Note that snapshot support require Kubernetes distributors to bundle the Snapshot controller, Snapshot CRDs, and validation webhook. A CSI driver supporting the snapshot functionality must also be deployed on the cluster.
```

### Kubectl Debug Graduates to Beta

> `Kubectl alpha debug` graduates to beta in 1.20, becoming `kubectl debug`. `Kubectl debug` provides support for common debugging workflows directly from kubectl. Troubleshooting scenarios supported in this release of kubectl include:

Reviewer 7: Do we capitalize commands at the beginning of sentences? - Didn't see a definite answer in Docs [style guide](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/style/style-guide/)

Author: I went back and forth on this and couldn't find a reference.

Reviewer 7: @zacharysarah @jimangel do either of you have thoughts?

Reviewer: @sethmccombs not sure if my opinion matter that much :-) but I recomend doing lowercase.  It looks better, I think.

Reviewer 4: We definitely shouldn't artificially capitalize a string literal.
```suggestion
The `kubectl alpha debug` features graduates to beta in 1.20, becoming `kubectl debug`. The feature provides support for common debugging workflows directly from kubectl. Troubleshooting scenarios supported in this release of kubectl include:
```

Author: lower cased the commands.

* Troubleshoot workloads that crash on startup by creating a copy of the pod that uses a different container image or command.
* Troubleshoot distroless containers by adding a new container with debugging tools, either in a new copy of the pod or using an ephemeral container. (Ephemeral containers are an alpha feature that are not enabled by default.)
* Troubleshoot on a node by creating a container running in the host namespaces and with access to the host’s filesystem.

> Note that as a new built-in command, `kubectl debug` takes priority over any kubectl plugin named “debug”. You will need to rename the affected plugin.

Reviewer 4: Future tense
```suggestion
Note that as a new built-in command, `kubectl debug` takes priority over any kubectl plugin named “debug”. You must rename the affected plugin.
```

Invocations using `kubectl alpha debug` are now deprecated and will be removed in a subsequent release. Update your scripts to use `kubectl debug`. For more information about `kubectl debug`, see [Debugging Running Pods](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/debug-application-cluster/debug-running-pod/).

### Beta: API Priority and Fairness

> Initially introduced in 1.18, Kubernetes 1.20 now enables API Priority and Fairness (APF) by default. This allows `kube-apiserver` to categorize incoming requests by priority levels.

Reviewer 4: Redundant
```suggestion
Introduced in 1.18, Kubernetes 1.20 now enables API Priority and Fairness (APF) by default. This allows `kube-apiserver` to categorize incoming requests by priority levels.
```

> ### IPV4/IPV6 Alpha Update

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
### Alpha with updates: IPV4/IPV6
```

> IPv4/IPv6 dual-stack has been reimplemented to support dual-stack services based on user and community feedback. This allows both IPv4 and IPv6 service cluster-IP addresses to be assigned to a single service and also enables Service to be transitioned from single to dual IP stack and vice versa.

Reviewer 4: Grammar nits
```suggestion
IPv4/IPv6 dual stack has been reimplemented to support dual stack services based on user and community feedback. This allows both IPv4 and IPv6 service cluster IP addresses to be assigned to a single service, and also enables a service to be transitioned from single to dual IP stack and vice versa.
```

### GA: Process PID Limiting for Stability

> Pids are a fundamental resource on Linux hosts. It is trivial to hit the task limit without hitting any other resource limits and cause instability to a host machine.

Reviewer 4: Grammar nits
```suggestion
Process IDs (pids) are a fundamental resource on Linux hosts. It is trivial to hit the task limit without hitting any other resource limits and cause instability to a host machine.
```

Administrators require mechanisms to ensure that user pods cannot induce pid exhaustion that prevents host daemons (runtime, kubelet, etc) from running. In addition, it is important to ensure that pids are limited among pods in order to ensure they have limited impact to other workloads on the node.
After being enabled-by-default for a year, SIG Node graduates PID Limits to GA on both `SupportNodePidsLimit` (node-to-pod PID isolation) and `SupportPodPidsLimit` (ability to limit PIDs per pod).

### Alpha: Graceful node shutdown

Users and cluster administrators expect that pods will adhere to expected pod lifecycle including pod termination. Currently, when a node shuts down, pods do not follow the expected pod termination lifecycle and are not terminated gracefully which can cause issues for some workloads.

> The `GracefulNodeShutdown` feature is now in Alpha. `GracefulNodeShutdown`makes the kubelet aware of node system shutdowns, enabling graceful termination of pods during a system shutdown.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `GracefulNodeShutdown` feature is now in Alpha. `GracefulNodeShutdown` makes the kubelet aware of node system shutdowns, enabling graceful termination of pods during a system shutdown.
```

> The `GracefulNodeShutdown` feature is now in Alpha. `GracefulNodeShutdown`makes the kubelet aware of node system shutdowns, enabling graceful termination of pods during a system shutdown.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `GracefulNodeShutdown` feature is now in Alpha. `GracefulNodeShutdown` makes the kubelet aware of node system shutdowns, enabling graceful termination of pods during a system shutdown.
```

## Major Changes

### Dockershim Deprecation

> Docker as an underlying runtime that is being deprecated. Docker-produced images will continue to work in your cluster with all runtimes, as they always have using CRI.

Reviewer 8: Being nitpicky on OCI vs CRI. How about something like this:

Dockershim, the Container Runtime Interface (CRI) shim for Docker is being deprecated. Therefore, support for Docker is deprecated and will be removed in a future release. Docker-produced images will continue to work in your cluster with all CRI compliant runtimes as Docker images follow the Open Container Initiative (OCI) image specification.

Reviewer 3: this lgtm ☝️

Author: Thanks @reylejano for making it this more clear and understandable.

> Docker as an underlying runtime that is being deprecated. Docker-produced images will continue to work in your cluster with all runtimes, as they always have using CRI.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
Dockershim, the Container Runtime Interface (CRI) shim for Docker is being deprecated. Therefore, support for Docker is deprecated and will be removed in a future release. Docker-produced images will continue to work in your cluster with all CRI compliant runtimes as Docker images follow the Open Container Initiative (OCI) image specification.
```

Reviewer 8: Adding the suggested edits previously discussed.

Author: I just sent in an updated commit.

> Dockershim, the Container Runtime Interface (CRI) shim for Docker is being deprecated. Therefore, support for Docker is deprecated and will be removed in a future release. Docker-produced images will continue to work in your cluster with all CRI compliant runtimes as Docker images follow the Open Container Initiative (OCI) image specification.

Reviewer 4: Caps nits
```suggestion
Dockershim, the container runtime interface (CRI) shim for Docker is being deprecated. Support for Docker is deprecated and will be removed in a future release. Docker-produced images will continue to work in your cluster with all CRI compliant runtimes as Docker images follow the Open Container Initiative (OCI) image specification.
```

> The Kubernetes community [has written a blog post about this in detail](https://blog.k8s.io/2020/12/02/dont-panic-kubernetes-and-docker/) with [a dedicated FAQ page for it](https://blog.k8s.io/2020/12/02/dockershim-faq/).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The Kubernetes community has written a [detailed blog post about deprecation](https://blog.k8s.io/2020/12/02/dont-panic-kubernetes-and-docker/) with [a dedicated FAQ page for it](https://blog.k8s.io/2020/12/02/dockershim-faq/).
```

### Exec Probe Timeout Handling

> A long standing bug has been fixed regarding exec probe timeouts that may impact existing pod definitions. Prior to this fix, the field `timeoutSeconds` was not respected for exec probes. Instead, probes would run indefinitely, even past their configured deadline, until a result was returned. With this change, the default value of `1 second` will be applied if a value is not specified and existing pod definitions may no longer be sufficient if a probe takes longer than 1 second. A feature gate, called `ExecProbeTimeout`, has been added with this fix that enables cluster operators to revert to the previous behavior, but this will be locked and removed in subsequent releases. In order to revert to the previous behavior, cluster operators should set this feature gate to `false`.

Reviewer 4: Grammar nits
```suggestion
A longstanding bug regarding exec probe timeouts that may impact existing pod definitions has been fixed. Prior to this fix, the field `timeoutSeconds` was not respected for exec probes. Instead, probes would run indefinitely, even past their configured deadline, until a result was returned. With this change, the default value of `1 second` will be applied if a value is not specified and existing pod definitions may no longer be sufficient if a probe takes longer than one second. A feature gate, called `ExecProbeTimeout`, has been added with this fix that enables cluster operators to revert to the previous behavior, but this will be locked and removed in subsequent releases. In order to revert to the previous behavior, cluster operators should set this feature gate to `false`.
```

Please review the updated documentation regarding [configuring probes](docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-liveness-readiness-startup-probes/#configure-probes) for more details.

## Other Updates

### Graduated to Stable

* [RuntimeClass](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/585)
* [Built-in API Types Defaults](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/1929)
* [Add Pod-Startup Liveness-Probe Holdoff](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/950)
* [Support CRI-ContainerD On Windows](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/1001)
* [SCTP Support for Services](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/614)
* [Adding AppProtocol To Services And Endpoints](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/1507)

### Notable Feature Updates

> * [CronJobs (Previously ScheduledJobs)](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/19)

Reviewer 6: CronJob hasn't been called ScheduledJob for some time; this wording might suggest it was renamed just for v1.20

# Release Team

This release was made possible by a very dedicated group of individuals, who came together as a team in the midst of a lot of things happening out in the world. A huge thank you to the release lead Jeremy Rickard, and to everyone else on the release team for supporting each other, and working so hard to deliver the 1.20 release for the community.

The Kubernetes community continues to grow at an absolutely astonishing pace, and as the community grows so does the surrounding ecosystem. To date, Kubernetes has had over 52,000 individual contributors, and this number just gets larger with every release.

# Release Logo

> ![Kubernetes 1.20 Release Logo](/images/blog/2020-12-08-kubernetes-1.20-release-announcement/laser.png

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![Kubernetes 1.20 Release Logo](/images/blog/2020-12-08-kubernetes-1.20-release-announcement/laser.png)
```

> The Kubernetes community continues to grow at an absolutely astonishing pace, and as the community grows so does the surrounding ecosystem. To date, Kubernetes has had over 52,000 individual contributors, and this number just gets larger with every release.

Reviewer: @jrsapi how did you calculate this number?  The contributors section on GitHub only reports 2,943.

> The Kubernetes community continues to grow at an absolutely astonishing pace, and as the community grows so does the surrounding ecosystem. To date, Kubernetes has had over 52,000 individual contributors, and this number just gets larger with every release.

Reviewer: @jrsapi How did you calculate this number?  The contributors section on GitHub only reports 2,943.

Author: Looks like this might be more contributions related. We'll revise.

[raddest](https://www.dictionary.com/browse/rad): *adjective*, Slang. excellent; wonderful; cool:

> The Kubernetes 1.20 Release has been the raddest release yet.

2020 has been a challenging year for many of us, but Kubernetes contributors have delivered a record-breaking number of enhancements in this release. That is a great accomplishment, so the release lead wanted to end the year with a little bit of levity and pay homage to [Kubernetes 1.14 - Caturnetes](https://github.com/kubernetes/sig-release/tree/master/releases/release-1.14) with a "rad" cat named Humphrey.

> Humphrey is the release lead's cat and has a permanant [`blep`](https://www.inverse.com/article/42316-why-do-cats-blep-science-explains). *Rad* was pretty common slang in the 1990s in the United States, and so were laser backgrounds. Humphrey in a 1990s style school picture  felt like a fun way to end the year. Hopefully, Humphrey and his *blep* bring you a little joy at the end of 2020!  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Humphrey is the release lead's cat and has a permanent [`blep`](https://www.inverse.com/article/42316-why-do-cats-blep-science-explains). *Rad* was pretty common slang in the 1990s in the United States, and so were laser backgrounds. Humphrey in a 1990s style school picture  felt like a fun way to end the year. Hopefully, Humphrey and his *blep* bring you a little joy at the end of 2020!  
```

> Humphrey is the release lead's cat and has a permanant [`blep`](https://www.inverse.com/article/42316-why-do-cats-blep-science-explains). *Rad* was pretty common slang in the 1990s in the United States, and so were laser backgrounds. Humphrey in a 1990s style school picture  felt like a fun way to end the year. Hopefully, Humphrey and his *blep* bring you a little joy at the end of 2020!  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Humphrey is the release lead's cat and has a permanent [`blep`](https://www.inverse.com/article/42316-why-do-cats-blep-science-explains). *Rad* was pretty common slang in the 1990s in the United States, and so were laser backgrounds. Humphrey in a 1990s style school picture felt like a fun way to end the year. Hopefully, Humphrey and his *blep* bring you a little joy at the end of 2020!
```

> The release logo was created by [Henry Hsu -  @robotdancebattle](https://www.instagram.com/robotdancebattle/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The release logo was created by [Henry Hsu - @robotdancebattle](https://www.instagram.com/robotdancebattle/).
```

In the v1.20 release cycle, which ran for 11 weeks (September 25 to December 9), we saw contributions from [967 companies](https://k8s.devstats.cncf.io/d/9/companies-table?orgId=1&var-period_name=v1.19.0%20-%20now&var-metric=contributions) and [1335 individuals](https://k8s.devstats.cncf.io/d/66/developer-activity-counts-by-companies?orgId=1&var-period_name=v1.19.0%20-%20now&var-metric=contributions&var-repogroup_name=Kubernetes&var-country_name=All&var-companies=All) ([44 of whom](https://k8s.devstats.cncf.io/d/52/new-contributors?orgId=1&from=1601006400000&to=1607576399000&var-repogroup_name=Kubernetes) made their first Kubernetes contribution) from [26 countries](https://k8s.devstats.cncf.io/d/50/countries-stats?orgId=1&from=1601006400000&to=1607576399000&var-period_name=Quarter&var-countries=All&var-repogroup_name=Kubernetes&var-metric=rcommitters&var-cum=countries).

# Ecosystem Updates

> - Kubecon North America just wrapped up three weeks ago, the second such event to be virtual! All talks are [now available to all on-demand](https://onlinexperiences.com/scripts/Server.nxp?LASCmd=L:0&AI=1&ShowKey=113608) for anyone still needing to catch up!

Reviewer 2: What do you think about linking the youtube playlist that's available for everyone instead of the link to the kubecon platform? 

https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLj6h78yzYM2Pn8RxfLh2qrXBDftr6Qjut

Reviewer 5: +1 :)

Author: Will do.

> - Kubecon North America just wrapped up three weeks ago, the second such event to be virtual! All talks are [now available to all on-demand](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLj6h78yzYM2Pn8RxfLh2qrXBDftr6Qjut) for anyone still needing to catch up!

Reviewer: This might be intentional&mdash;I see it repeated below. @jrsapi?
```suggestion
- KubeCon North America just wrapped up three weeks ago, the second such event to be virtual! All talks are [now available to all on-demand](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLj6h78yzYM2Pn8RxfLh2qrXBDftr6Qjut) for anyone still needing to catch up!
```

> - Kubecon North America just wrapped up three weeks ago, the second such event to be virtual! All talks are [now available to all on-demand](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLj6h78yzYM2Pn8RxfLh2qrXBDftr6Qjut) for anyone still needing to catch up!

Reviewer: This might be intentional&mdash;I see it repeated below.  @jrsapi?
```suggestion
- KubeCon North America just wrapped up three weeks ago, the second such event to be virtual! All talks are [now available to all on-demand](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLj6h78yzYM2Pn8RxfLh2qrXBDftr6Qjut) for anyone still needing to catch up!
```

> - Kubecon North America just wrapped up three weeks ago, the second such event to be virtual! All talks are [now available to all on-demand](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLj6h78yzYM2Pn8RxfLh2qrXBDftr6Qjut) for anyone still needing to catch up!

Reviewer 4: Grammar nits
```suggestion
- Kubecon North America, the second virtual KubeCon, wrapped up three weeks ago! All talks are [now available to all on-demand](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLj6h78yzYM2Pn8RxfLh2qrXBDftr6Qjut) for anyone still needing to catch up!
```

> - In June, the Kubernetes community formed a new working group as a direct response to the Black Lives Matter protests occurring across America. WG Naming's goal is to remove harmful and unclear language in the Kubernetes project as completely as possible and to do so in a way that is portable to other CNCF projects.  A great introductory talk on this important work and how it is conducted was given [at KubeCon 2020 North America](https://sched.co/eukp), and the initial impact of this labor [can actually be seen in the v1.20 release](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/2067).

Reviewer 5: 💖

> - In June, the Kubernetes community formed a new working group as a direct response to the Black Lives Matter protests occurring across America. WG Naming's goal is to remove harmful and unclear language in the Kubernetes project as completely as possible and to do so in a way that is portable to other CNCF projects.  A great introductory talk on this important work and how it is conducted was given [at KubeCon 2020 North America](https://sched.co/eukp), and the initial impact of this labor [can actually be seen in the v1.20 release](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/2067).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In June, the Kubernetes community formed a new working group as a direct response to the Black Lives Matter protests occurring across America. WG Naming's goal is to remove harmful and unclear language in the Kubernetes project as completely as possible and to do so in a way that is portable to other CNCF projects. A great introductory talk on this important work and how it is conducted was given [at KubeCon 2020 North America](https://sched.co/eukp), and the initial impact of this labor [can actually be seen in the v1.20 release](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/2067).
```

> - Previously announced this summer, [The Certified Kubernetes Security Specialist (CKS) Certification](https://www.cncf.io/announcements/2020/11/17/kubernetes-security-specialist-certification-now-available/)  was released during Kubecon NA for immediate scheduling!  Following the model of CKA and CKAD, the CKS is a performance-based exam, focused on security-themed competencies and domains.  This exam is targeted at current CKA holders, particularly those who want to round out their baseline knowledge in securing cloud workloads (which is all of us, right?).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Previously announced this summer, [The Certified Kubernetes Security Specialist (CKS) Certification](https://www.cncf.io/announcements/2020/11/17/kubernetes-security-specialist-certification-now-available/)  was released during KubeCon NA for immediate scheduling!  Following the model of CKA and CKAD, the CKS is a performance-based exam, focused on security-themed competencies and domains.  This exam is targeted at current CKA holders, particularly those who want to round out their baseline knowledge in securing cloud workloads (which is all of us, right?).
```

> - Previously announced this summer, [The Certified Kubernetes Security Specialist (CKS) Certification](https://www.cncf.io/announcements/2020/11/17/kubernetes-security-specialist-certification-now-available/)  was released during Kubecon NA for immediate scheduling!  Following the model of CKA and CKAD, the CKS is a performance-based exam, focused on security-themed competencies and domains.  This exam is targeted at current CKA holders, particularly those who want to round out their baseline knowledge in securing cloud workloads (which is all of us, right?).

Reviewer 4: Space nit
```suggestion
- Previously announced this summer, [The Certified Kubernetes Security Specialist (CKS) Certification](https://www.cncf.io/announcements/2020/11/17/kubernetes-security-specialist-certification-now-available/) was released during Kubecon NA for immediate scheduling!  Following the model of CKA and CKAD, the CKS is a performance-based exam, focused on security-themed competencies and domains.  This exam is targeted at current CKA holders, particularly those who want to round out their baseline knowledge in securing cloud workloads (which is all of us, right?).
```

# Event Updates

> KubeCon + CloudNativeCon Europe 2021 will take place May 4 - 7, 2021! Registration will open on January 11. You can find more information about the conference [here](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/kubecon-cloudnativecon-europe/).  And don't forget [the CFP](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/kubecon-cloudnativecon-europe/program/cfp/), it closes on Sunday, December 13, 11:59pm PST!

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
KubeCon + CloudNativeCon Europe 2021 will take place May 4 - 7, 2021! Registration will open on January 11. You can find more information about the conference [here](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/kubecon-cloudnativecon-europe/). Remember that [the CFP](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/kubecon-cloudnativecon-europe/program/cfp/) closes on Sunday, December 13, 11:59pm PST!
```

# Upcoming release webinar

Stay tuned for the upcoming release webinar happening this January.

# Get Involved

> If you’re interested in contributing to the Kubernetes community, a great starting point is by taking a look at the Special Interest Groups (SIGs) (many of them may align with your interests!). If there are things you’d like to share with the community, you can join the weekly community meeting, or use any of the following channels:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If you’re interested in contributing to the Kubernetes community, Special Interest Groups (SIGs) are a great starting point. Many of them may align with your interests! If there are things you’d like to share with the community, you can join the weekly community meeting, or use any of the following channels:
```
